And if we search in here with model, then we can see that everything I asked for actually got done. Before we had a duplicate of this one, but now there's only one. And in theory, if I click this, I'm not sure if this will actually work. I don't know whether this is part of the prototype. Yes, it works. Oh, beautiful! So there we go. Loads of this functionality looks like it is now just done. And so you might ask, what is the next step after this? Well, now I consider the prototype to be complete. That was a pretty quick one. Usually, I'm kind of in here doing a lot more. I would pass this off to an AFK agent to plug in everything, delete the old prototype code, and just make sure that it was compliant with the original spec. And as you can imagine, the results here are incredible because we've had such high-fidelity discussion, because we've been able to look at a live-running version of it, give our feedback based on that. That feedback is so invaluable, and it's already baked into a throwaway branch that our. Implementer can actually just go and reference. So many times I see people saying, "Well, the thing didn't build what I wanted. I created this big, beautiful spec, and it just did something totally weird." You probably just weren't having discussions at a high enough fidelity, and you probably should have been prototyping. Finally, I don't want you to walk away thinking this is only for UI or front end stuff. Front end definitely benefits a lot from prototypes because how should it look? What should it look like? Is a really key question that's really hard to answer during the discussion phase. However, when you're doing more complicated stuff, especially back-end work, then a question like "Does this logic, does this state model feel right?" If you're building anything reasonably complex or that needs to work in the real world, then you're going to run into these questions all the time. And often, the best way to get around these kind of questions to build something that kind of serves the needs of your users, especially on something complex.
