Feel right to me. So let's see what B is. Let's search again inside model here. And okay, now on the left we have grouping for, we can filter down. Okay, that's quite nice. What happens if I search for something else? And it's already okay. So the filter resets at that point. Now that's okay, but I wonder what C looks like. I really don't like this search diagrams thing at the top. That doesn't look nice. But let's see what this looks like. So let's search for model. And ooh, okay. So now it's everything in line, no filters. So I do actually really like this, but there are a few things that I don't like. I don't like these current things. It looks like this is a really technical, weird thing, but the the current one is showing with the diagrams snapshot. So I've got some kind of feedback that I want to give to the prototype. This prototyping session took about hundred thousand tokens. So I'm actually going to compact and say. We're going to do some more QA on this. Compacting at this point makes sense to me because we kind of need to retain all of the information about the prototype, need to retain all the design decisions that went into it, but we just need to give it some feedback. So we just need to continue the conversation in the same place in the codebase. I should definitely do a video about the design tree that I use for when I've got compact versus clear versus handoff, but you know that's one for another time. Okay, now I'm going to give some feedback. I really like the search box of A, and I. I like the layout of C. Okay, so I've just dictated in some more feedback, and I'm going to send it off. So the idea of this session is I'm iterating on this prototype. I'm not just saying, okay, this is the best one. I'm going to actually create some design decisions here, create a super rich asset. All of these design decisions are then going to be encoded into the prototype, and I'm going to save the prototype probably on a throwaway branch. That means that when the thing actually goes to implement it.
