This is something that a lot of you will do when they're working with you. That totally drives me crazy. And it's sort of something that I've been re-enogounced for a while now. The thing that I've noticed is people tend to think, I need to create a spec for AI. I need to create a plan, plan mode, spec for the development. I need to put all of my efforts in the menu, this extremely detailed spec, so that when I get some outputs from the AI, those outputs are going to look like the spec. I'm going to specify everything up front so that I can just perfectly mail it. And in this impulse, what they forget to do is they forget they can actually write code. You can write code while you're working towards a spec prototyping and spikes are things that we've had around since the days of agile. I suppose these are still the days of agile, I still extremely popular, still extremely influential. But people just aren't prototyping anymore. And so as part of my skills repo, I'm trying to turn this around. I have a prototype skill. A prototype is throwaway code that answers a question. Everyone is saying that code is cheap, and it's partially true and partially I hate that phrase. But the thing that is cheap is the cost of producing code is gone way way down. So producing prototype is producing quick, kind of throwaway spikes has never been cheaper and never been a more effective tool. In this video, I'm going to introduce this prototype skill. I'm going to talk about when you should use it, what it can be used for, and also how it fits into my new wayfinder skill. But first, I want to explain the concept of fidelity, high fidelity and low fidelity. Whenever you're talking about designing something, you're going to have questions in your mind that need to be resolved somehow. Some of the questions are going to be really basic, like the basic frame of the thing you're building. The code opens out, it should have a cancel button and a confirm button. Simple stuff. If we're simple stuff like that, you don't need a lot of high fidelity stuff to answer the question. That can just be resolved in a discussion. But let's say with the mobile, when it opens up, and the sum circumstances it needs to show us some data, you might need to go a little bit of high fidelity on that. How would you display the data? It's often hard when you're playing out the spec to figure out exactly how things should look. How they should behave under certain circumstances, and they can show that you've wrote, tested all of this idea, in kind of semi-workin code, that means you need a higher fidelity. Some questions really can only be answered by prototyping. And because producing these prototypes is now cheaper than it ever has been before, I tend to want more of my discussion at a higher fidelity. Obviously, the basic stuff I'm going to just resolve through discussion, the urging is going to ask me some questions, probably through a grilling session, and then I'm going to say, okay, yeah, this sounds good. But then, as soon as we get anything that I think we're willing to see this in action, I need to feel it in action, look at it working. I'm going to ask for a prototype. The prototype being in a part of my new wayfinder skill, which is a skill that allows you to plan a huge chunk of work. There's a future video coming on wayfinder. Now, wayfinder what it does is it tackles a huge chunk of work and it splits it up into different places. And all of these planning sessions get their own tickets and there should be someone here, ticket types just here, that tells it exactly what different ticket types are. But to the way looking out here are the grilling type, so it's using the grilling skills, and the prototype ticket type. The default case here is the grilling type, so we were chatting with the agent, figuring out the basic scope of the finger building. But when you need to raise the fidelity of the discussion, making a cheap rough concrete artifact to react to, and have line of rough-taker style, where you are a logic code via the prototype skill, linked the price type as an asset, use when, how should it look, or how should it behave, is the key question. Whether you're using wayfinder or not, this gives you a really clear criteria for when you should reach for a prototype. So I'm sure you're dying to see it in action, and here it is. This is what it's done. I've been using wayfinder to extend my diagramming app here, which is built on to your role. And I want the way to search through old diagrams, and the data model here is quite complicated. There's like diagrams and then snapshots of the diagram through time, and so I wanted to build a search bar, but I wasn't sure how it should look or behave. So I ran a prototype here, and when it did, is it created, is it a picker at the bottom here? And this picker, if I go between it, it has three different options, so that's option V, and that's option C, and each one in code, a few design decisions that I can then react to and iterate on. So it's start by looking at A. I've just generated this, I'm not actually looked at it yet, so I get to search the diagram, and I'll see what comes up. This one, okay, is reflow in place, grouped rows, or grouping the snapshot by the name of the diagram. I really like the placing of the search box up here, but this grouping doesn't feel right to me. So let's see what be this. Let's search again, inside model here, and okay now on the left, we have grouping for, we can filter down, and I'm kind of what's quite nice. What happens, if I search for something else, and it's already, I guess, the filter reset at that point. So that's okay, but I want to see what looks like. I really don't like this search diagram, it's thing at the top that doesn't look nice, but let's see what this looks like to look search from model and who working, so now it's everything in line, no filters. So I do actually really like this, but there are a few things that I don't like. I don't like these current things, it looks like this is a really technical weird thing, but the current one is showing with the diagrams in actual. So I've got some kind of feedback that I wanted to give to the prototype. This prototyping session took about 100,000 tokens, so I'm actually going to do some more QA on this. Compacting at this point makes sense to me because we kind of need to retain all of the information about the prototype, need to retain all the design decisions that went into it, but we just need to give it some feedback, so we just need to continue the conversation in the same place in the co-box. Actually, definitely do a video about the design tree that I use for when I've got compact versus clear versus hand off, but that's one from other time. Okay, now I'm going to give some feedback. I really like the search box of A and I like the layout, I'll see. Okay, so I've just dictated into all feedback and I'm going to send it off. So we are doing this session as I'm iterating on this prototype. I'm not just saying, okay, this is the best one, I'm going to actually create some design decisions to the create a super rich asset. All of these design decisions are then going to be encoded into the prototype and I'm going to save the prototype, probably on a throwaway branch. That means that when the thing actually goes to implement it, it's not only got a spec, it's actually got real front end code that it can usually copy and paste out. Now creating these prototypes does take some time, right? The higher fidelity you go, the more token cost there is. If we were to try to resolve this in a discussion, we'd be at a lower fidelity, so the answers would be less useful, but we'd also be spending a few tokens. And we can see it's now starting to give me a D version here, which is kind of what I've been iterating towards. One note here is that this is actually integrated with the live page. So it's not doing this on a throwaway route. You can do that if you want to, but I really like seeing it actually plugged into the live route, because then it just gives you so much more flexibility. Like it's on a more honest representation of how the code is actually going to work. All right, looks like it's now created D, so let's see what that looks like. Yes, we have the box from A, and if we search in here with the model, and we can see everything I asked for actually got done. Before we had a duplicate of this one, but now there's only one. And in theory, if I click this, I'm not sure if this actually would. I don't know whether this is part of the prototype, yes it works. Oh, beautiful. But then we go loaded, it's functionality looks like it is now just done. And so you might ask, what is the next step after this? Well, now I consider the prototype to be complete. That was a pretty quick one, usually I'm kind of in here doing a lot more. I would pass this off to an AFK agent to plug in everything, delete the old prototype code, and just make sure that it was compliant with the original spec. And as you can imagine, the results here are incredible, because we've had such high fidelity discussion, because we've been able to look at a live, running version of it, give our feedback based on that. That feedback is so invaluable, and it's already baked into a throwaway branch, that power, influencer, can actually just go and reference. So many times, I see people saying, well, the thing didn't build one, I wanted. I create this big, beautiful spec, and it just did something totally weird. You probably just weren't having discussions at a high enough fidelity, and you probably should have been prototype. But only I don't want you to walk away thinking this is only for UI or frontend stuff. Frontend definitely benefits a lot from prototypes, because how should it look, what should it look like, is a really key question that's really hard to answer during the discussion phase. However, when you're doing more complicated stuff, especially in back end work, then a question like, does this logic does this state model feel right? If you're building anything reasonably complex or that needs to work in the real world, then you're going to run into these questions all the time. And often the best way to get around these kind of questions to build something that sort of serves the needs of your users, especially on something complex, is to build a prototype. Now, it doesn't need to be a UI prototype, and what I've got here is build a tiny interactive terminal app that pushes the state with machine through cases that are hard to reason about paper. In other words, a pure logic prototype, and I've had tons of feedback from folks saying that this is such a nice little feature. Both of these branches have their own reference docs here, which tell it exactly how to do each one. So if it's building logic prototype, it looks here. If it's building a UI prototype, it looks like bits. So I beg of you, how for your discussions at a higher fidelity, as agents get better at working with canvases, working with design tools, and sure that wire frames will definitely make a comeback as well. And the key point is this, the loop from discussion and spec to production-radicode, is really a little bit whereas if you have a working prototype, turning that into production, these pretty simple, I want to give a quick shout out to ShainPap by Ryan Singer, which is an extremely good book and very, very influential on me. I read this, I think, in 2019 or something, and it totally changed the way that I built applications for people. It is totally free online and I will drop a link in the description. If you want to keep up with my skills, then my skills newsletter is the place to be. I'm shipping ship ship in constantly thinking about these skills, how I can make them better. And you can benefit from that the day that I make the changes for folks. Thank you so much for watching. It's been a pleasure, as always bringing you one of my skills and I will see you very soon. What's up, Alice? How are we doing? I'm not good at long, I've got about an hour. To chat about, wait for my death.
